What is Azure Fundamentals?
Azure Fundamentals is a series of three learning paths that familiarize you with Azure and its many services and features.
Whether you're interested in compute, networking, or storage services; learning about cloud security best practices; 
or exploring governance and management options, think of Azure Fundamentals as your curated guide to Azure.


What is Cloud computing?
Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services over the Internet. 
Computing services include common IT infrastructure such as virtual machines, storage databases and networking. 
Cloud services also expand the traditional IT offerings to include things like Internet of Things (IoT), machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence a (AI). 
With cloud computing the PC is in a cloud provider's data center instead of physically with you. 
This lets you pay for only the services you use, plus someone else gets to manage the upkeep of the computer. 
Each cloud provider will have their own selection of services to choose from, but the basic service is provided by all cloud providers are "compute power" and "storage". 

"Compute power" is how much processing your computer can do. 
For example, when buying a home computer you may choose a computer with 8 gigabytes of RAM and the latest processor to run the software, you need today, 
but as a load on the computer grows, you find that it slows down. With cloud computing, you can add and remove compute power as you need it. 
This saves on cost, since you only pay for the resources you use. 

"Storage" is the volume of data you can store on your computer. A traditional computer has limited hard drive space. 
Overtime, you may have to run out and buy another hard drive to store more data. With cloud computing, you can request more storage as you need it. 
cloud providers manage the upkeep of the computer, so you don't have to. They will make sure that there are backups, 
that the operating systems is up to date as well as making sure that everything is up and running 24 hours a day. 
As your business grows and your computing needs change, you can quickly bring on new computing resources in a cost effective way. 


Describe the shared responsibility model?
Start with a traditional corporate datacenter. 
The company is responsible for maintaining the physical space, ensuring security, and maintaining or replacing the servers if anything happens. 
The IT department is responsible for maintaining all the infrastructure and software needed to keep the datacenter up and running. 
They’re also likely to be responsible for keeping all systems patched and on the correct version.
With the shared responsibility model, these responsibilities get shared between the cloud provider and the consumer. 
Physical security, power, cooling, and network connectivity are the responsibility of the cloud provider. 


Describe the consumption-based model?
When comparing IT infrastructure models, there are two types of expenses to consider. Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operational expenditure (OpEx).
CapEx is typically a one-time, up-front expenditure to purchase or secure tangible resources. 
A new building, repaving the parking lot, building a datacenter, or buying a company vehicle are examples of CapEx.
In contrast, OpEx is spending money on services or products over time. 
Renting a convention center, leasing a company vehicle, or signing up for cloud services are all examples of OpEx.

Cloud computing falls under OpEx because cloud computing operates on a consumption-based model. 
With cloud computing, you don’t pay for the physical infrastructure, the electricity, the security, or anything else associated with maintaining a datacenter. 
Instead, you pay for the IT resources you use. If you don’t use any IT resources this month, you don’t pay for any IT resources.

This consumption-based model has many benefits, including:
-> No upfront costs.
-> No need to purchase and manage costly infrastructure that users might not use to its fullest potential.
-> The ability to pay for more resources when they're needed.
-> The ability to stop paying for resources that are no longer needed.


Cloud pricing models:
Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services over the internet by using a pay-as-you-go pricing model. 
You typically pay only for the cloud services you use, which helps you:
-> Plan and manage your operating costs.
-> Run your infrastructure more efficiently.
-> Scale as your business needs change.
